so I'm going to I'm going to give you a
number we'd blindfold and then show her
mother a random number generator a
random picture generator the kid will
say I'm writing your mind and then they
start they do a few little experiments
we did various tests and she was right
every
time their kids can see things that they
simply can't her answer is 100% accurate
what is the second number six oh my God
we think of as woooo or this Airy Fairy
stuff but it's true autistic individuals
have these incredible abilities the
science behind this this is so much
bigger than our knee-jerk reactions of
Truth have everyone on the crew just
come and write a word down
okay
[Music]
H you've just done an amazing job
documenting these autistic in many cases
non-verbal children who display
telepathic Powers which I can't believe
I'm even saying but you show that this
is you know occurring in statistically
significant ways what picture am I
looking at
now okay let you say it okay what is
this you see I'm not even looking at him
yeah you have a Harvard trained
neuroscientist Dr Diane Powell who doing
the studies but you also you know seem
eminently you know normal and not you
know insanely woo woo I needed to
believe it was happening and so I asked
Diane you know can can we can I do my
own test where I bring the cues and pick
the house I didn't want her to be a
factor in it so I wanted to control the
test I want Dr P to bring the stuff I
don't want families to bring the stuff I
just want to be like the layer for
Skeptics where it's like you know get
this on I'm not even going to open it
until the day up and she said yes and I
said I'd like it to be a family we
haven't tested yet that you've never met
I just wanted to clear out any of the
possible factors that could influence
this that's kind of how it began we
brought this young girl Mia up from
Mexico you know most of the family
didn't even speak English only her aunt
Sophia did and I rented a house in
Glendale California and we took all the
mirrors down and all the TVs down and
put up cameras every which way and
started the process of testing her and
with um a divider that would go between
her and her mother we'd blindfold Mia
and then show her mother a random number
generator a random picture generator I
brought flash cards colored balls we did
various tests and she was right every
time
a a
the tests were remarkable I mean just
hearing her say without fail what's in
her mother's mind it's just I don't know
it's so amazing and then hearing the
earnestness of her parents as well where
it's like these people clearly are not
lying they're not grifting you know
there's no ulterior motive here you you
can write a word too you can write a
word so ke just sees the back of my hand
okay I'm just going to grab
one uh actually the too easy hold on
that goes with what we just looked at um
oh that's tell me when when is ready
okay you see
this yeah what do you want um okay
what's in my mind what's the what's the
picture about back
c r
o c
o d
i l
e crocodile so awesome ail that's so
awesome three yeah three
mhm good
job here we
go doing so good
[Music]
8 what what m
H I think that you know with the
telepathy tapes um one of the things
that I you know I realized in terms of
instead of me just writing up all these
cases you know and then that being yet
another thing that's in the scientific
literature that people need to Hear What
I Hear because I'm not just collecting
data I'm assessing you know the um the
tone of voice you know the content of
what said you can you you really there's
so much information there that's not
like you know mathem iCal data but
there's so much information that you're
getting from actually listening to um
these families and and listening to the
people who see this stuff you know for
the first time or or listening to their
struggles with how do I make sense of
this because that's that's that's really
what I I'm uh the kind of contact I get
all the time from these families
is I you know I don't know what to make
of this and they're relieved that their
their child isn't the only one so I mean
I'm a documentary filmmaker by trade and
I've had I've created uh five feature
films but I will tell you I felt bashful
when I started working on something that
had to do with telepathy I mean my dad I
remember saying something along the
lines of like your hard-earned career
and reputation are going to be you know
scattered to the wind it felt it felt
hard to talk about to people to clients
you know I also direct commercials and
stuff and uh my mother-in-law is
you know at the time I started making it
was you know lives on a sheep farm in
rural Minnesota and just all these
people were like oh has Kai kind of got
off the deep end here and that's why to
me it was like just the word telepathy
you can't reduce it to fact or fiction
let's go look at the stories of these
people the science behind this this is
so much bigger than our knee-jerk
reactions of truth I just spoke to Dr
Diane Powell and in fact we've been in
touch for like a year year and a half or
something and I've always found her just
to be this amazing woman and she's just
a a an impressive combination of
extremely open-minded but also extremely
rigorous yeah and so H did you how did
you get in touch with her you did you
you heard her on a podcast is that right
it unfolded by me hearing her on a
podcast about um about her research that
she'd been doing today I'm here with
Diane Powell and we will be uh focusing
on her research on some autistic savants
with telepathic ability and I thought
that was fascinating and I wanted to get
on the phone and learn more and went out
to visit her and you know uh one of the
first things I you know asked of her was
can you pull up some emails and
obviously not share names but like tell
me some of the things that people are
saying when they write to you and that
was a very convincing first step for me
to witness is that you know this wasn't
just something she was talking about or
she studied in a few one-offs I mean her
email box was filled of parents reaching
out saying saying I'm finding that my
child can read my thoughts this seems
impossible we've tested it at home I
have no framework for this can you
explain what is happening and it was a
confusion and a wonderment and sometimes
a desperate desperation coming from
these parents to understand what was
going on and they don't know each other
they are very siloed and that was the
first moment where I thought okay
there's something very big here so how
does one go from a traditional academic
background to studying on itic children
who have high extra sensory perception
abilities I learned about autism and
Savant back in
1986 because I met Oliver sax
then so Oliver sax was a neurologist who
wrote um he wrote a lot of different
books one of the books he wrote was
Awakenings you know about people that
had Parkinson's and were given elopa for
the first time and all of a sudden they
went from being like frozen statues to
suddenly you know moving and there was a
movie made about that and he was
somebody that would study these quirky
sort of syndromes that uh told you
something about the
brain one of the case reports were about
these twins who are institutionalized
who were autistic who played a game in
which they would say prime numbers back
and forth to one another and they'd be
consecutive prime numbers they would be
six digits long and there's no algorithm
for that that and they just knew these
prime numbers and not only did they know
them they said they just saw them I am
thrilled to partner with my Heritage to
dive into my family's past it's been an
eye-opening experience using my Heritage
I started building my family tree by
adding names dates and even a photo
within minutes I was connected to over
20 billion historical records uncovering
stories I had no idea existed for
example my great-grandfather Nathan
White was a World War I veteran who got
PTSD because of what he experienced on
the battlefield my grandfather Irving
white conducted groundbreaking research
around the JFK Nixon debates which made
headlines across North America these
discoveries felt deeply personal and
connected me to my roots in a way I
never imagined one feature of my
Heritage that I love is called instant
discoveries where a whole branch of my
family tree was added with just one
click I even found old black and white
photos of my family and used my Heritage
as AI tools to colorize and animate them
it was like bringing history to Life
Sharing these moments with my family was
Unforgettable and I even recorded their
reactions it's been a very meaningful
Journey dad what do you think about that
wow that's incredible I had no idea see
the thing is my Heritage doesn't just
connect you to the past it makes your
history feel alive and relevant today if
you've ever wondered about about your
Origins I can't recommend my Heritage
enough start your 14-day free trial
today using the link in the description
or pinned comment trust me it's an
experience you won't forget for so many
of these families they are told by the
doctors when their child is born and is
diagnosed with you know non-speaking
often severe autism that they won't
comprehend the world around them they'll
never be able to communicate they
probably won't process information
beyond that of a toddler and so parents
are taken given you know all hope is
taken away and they go through this
journey often not even trying to reach
their child because they've been told by
all the quote unquote experts that their
kid isn't in there and what I found
really early on were two families both
me and another girl Amelia who appears
in episode 7 that when the parents were
homeschooling with covid and they had to
spend off like tons of time with their
child all of a sudden their child
started spelling on iPads doing things
they weren't ever doing in school yeah
and that's what happened with me and
then when she started communicating at
one point she then she started having a
diary and in her diary she said I can
read my parents Minds she wrote in her
diary that she can read everybody's mind
but you have to believe in her for her
to do it well they thought well that's
impossible so her mom asked a few
questions like what you know what am
what am I thinking of right now and you
know Mia spelled purple umbrella or
something or her dad wrote A P drew a
picture and what I draw a picture of and
she wrote dog and that was correct so
then they started doing more t tests and
taking books off the wall opening to a
page on the book um page of the book and
what am I reading and she would spell it
out what what am I looking at in the
book and she'd spell it out and that's
when they started doing blindfolded
popsicle tests with her where they'd
have piles and she'd put popsicle sticks
so they took a bunch of videos of this
stuff sent it to Diane sent it to me to
kind of preet it and it was absolutely
unbelievable and they were as concerned
and confused as any parent would be um
yeah to the point you know they were
deeply Catholic they live in Monterey
Mexico and and they were worried what
our neighbors going to feel is this evil
is this it you know there's all these
funny things that get put on telepathy
not what I've learned through making
this as what the non-speakers would say
is this is a spiritual gift from God
that is I think what every single one
would say um and and us you know humans
in this 3D world trying to map it out
for so long have been like this is the
work of something dark and it couldn't
be that couldn't be further from the
truth a agreed and uh and so you she's
sending you videos and you say I want I
want to see this for myself and so you
put them up uh in a place in Glendale
and you have completely controlled
experimental conditions to remove all
confounding variables and so tell me if
I'm getting this right so MIA is uh you
know sitting next to her mother and her
mother is looking and Mia is totally
blindfolded and then her mother is
looking at uh completely random large
assortment of images or numbers so be
extremely low probability if you were to
get it right just on one in one instance
is that correct yeah and if you were to
get it right you know over 10 or 20
instances uh the quote unquote P value
is what you would call it in science
gets to infantes low is that somewhat
right or yeah and I just want to say
something really quick you know Dr
Powell wants to do these really
scientific tight tests with Faraday
cages and you know get this as tight as
can be and we're we're hoping to do that
in the film that that has been
intentional along these tests I was kind
of creating so it was as concrete as I
could make it with like The Limited
finances and stuff but I would say yes I
think that anyone there would say that
we went through every measure I bought
even a brand new iPad to make sure it
couldn't be influenced I downloaded all
the random number generators on on set
so we video of that happening we we took
down all like said TV mirrors anything
reflective um and yeah like we were
really we went through pains to make
sure that there was a divider when moo
was shown a number and that she was
blindfolded and then we would take the
blindfold Off remove the partition and
as far as the numbers I think we started
off small like three numbers and then we
did four numbers and then we did five
numbers and it would generate 5276 3 or
whatever and then she would write it
5276 3 and it was it's not it's like she
would never miss you know and um we just
flash
cards um some random word generators we
would put colored balls inside of a you
know a can or something and she'd tell
us what color it was we did popsicle
stick tests which was beyond telepathy
because no one's sending information
then she like there's a bunch of
popsicle sticks and she had her mom
would hand her random ones to put in a
pile and she could see
them blind perfect blindfold yeah which
you had your skeptical colleague Michael
test was like I can't not see anything
through this blindfold yeah and that was
important to me I mean Michael is a very
dear friend and he's my DP in a lot of
my work but he he approached this very
skeptically yeah I mean more so than
even you know like me and and and so I
had him test the blindfold you know and
I I mean Michael certainly had his mind
blown you can't see this stuff and not
have your worldview change forever seen
it what are your thought I mean I
wouldn't do it as a skeptic I'm
generally a skeptic in my life for most
things but through seeing this I
can't it's hard for me to not believe
this stuff I think I'm looking at
everything I'm watching her I'm watching
the mom I'm watching I'm watching
everything and for me in my
perspective it's real Michael and any I
think reasonable listener would say
unless there's some bizarre Morse code
that is developed in a way that's
extremely high throughput and you can
somehow you know based on like pokes or
something you know abstract that out to
semantic Concepts like oh you're looking
at a a grapefruit on this iPad or
something quickly the null hypothesis
becomes more Fantastical than the this
child is displaying extremely high rates
of telepathy yeah and I think that's
important for listeners who haven't
listened to the show uh your listeners
is that you know so kind of where even
where I left off with Mia you know so
often these parents are told their kids
can't learn which is completely not true
the
non-speakers are brilliant individuals
inside of there who just cannot control
their body it's a behavior issue not an
intelligence one so but learning to
spell is meaning learning to control
your body it's a gross motor skill to
point to letters whereas talking is a
fine motor skill and that's why pointing
to letters with a letter board is often
a way that unleashes their communication
skills however because it creates you
have to create new neural Pathways to do
that often it takes an often this is
really important a lot of non-speakers
don't know where their bodies are they
don't feel them I've talked to so many
parents who said their children didn't
even know they had bodies or didn't know
they had fingers and they didn't get
that until they started communicating
right so to to help them spell it often
requires touch in the beginning and then
you sort of start to lighten the touch
or move the touch until there's no touch
and in the podcast I use the metaphor of
what my dad taught me how to ride a bike
I needed his whole body on me you know
helping me and then it was like less
body less touch less touch until finally
I was riding the bike and um and with
Mia you know we went out to dinner that
before every time we were on Zoom her
mom would have to touch her shoulder or
her head to communicate it was just what
she needed just the slightest touch help
her helped her and now her mom is
telling me she can do it without it and
that's how most of these kids are some
will always need touch but most will
graduate to a point where they don't
need it once they're they have more body
control they feel more sense of where
they are um so MIA when we she was doing
these tests had to have one slight touch
on her either her shoulder her her head
and the idea that like some Morse code
was going through there to someone who
can't feel their body yeah
is ridiculous and when I brought that up
to Michael I mean you could just hear
his disdain and his laugh of like that's
impossible that is grasping us and he
came in pretty skeptical he came in very
skeptical yeah but you can look at the
test it's not like there's something
happening the finger I mean how could
you ever convey a number or a random
like you said a abstract word through
Morse code on a it it's it's impossible
but I think it's a great first example
because uh she's Beyond Earnest and then
the the stats on what she's producing
are just remarkable and then you
actually go on to control for that
variable as far as touch which I think
is honestly going the extra mile again
maybe even unnecessary but to the
extreme skeptic in the audience should
satisfy them yeah and I think it's
important to note too that uh Dr Powell
got into this because she actually saw
there was initially some data around
autistic children displaying you know
High Clairvoyance or or telepathy and uh
studies even prior to her yeah and so
there is a body of work I mean psychical
Studies have been going on since the
1870s the Society of psychical research
you had uh you know um uh uh Frederick
Myers you had William James um you have
this is a long history yeah and there
was a a a man named Bernie
who first kind of came up with this idea
that that maybe tele not telepathy but
ESP gifts are should be a savant skill
and and he was noticing it in the
autistic population the severely
autistic non-speaking population and so
I think Dr Diane was like okay there's
something to build off of here and just
again to talk about Diane when after
those tests with Mia I was I mean really
shaken and she's like they don't they
don't count Kai in terms of science in
terms of the rigorous science that we
need to prove this because she was being
touched so can never be touched
and it was like okay that's unfair but I
mean to these poor children and these F
poor families you know I didn't even
want me as family to hear that they were
so want wanting um you know just to be
part of this validating process but then
the next episode we go to a young man
named ail who lives in New Jersey who
can do the telepathy with his mom across
the room what is
this you see I'm not even looking at him
yeah I'm just going to put it the away
and
then
it fix it fix it
Focus fix it and
then you're a genius so ail is um he's
one of the um children that I had tested
before meeting um Kai and
um I met him actually through um his mom
contacting me after seeing me um being
interviewed by deepo
tro and she's Indian and she you know
she's like saw deep ooper interview me
and said you know this is she talking
about somebody like just like my son and
so she she contacted me and I went out
and tested her
son and um and and then and then later
invited you know deac troper to come see
it and
he was so blown away how can you tell
what these words and numbers are because
you're not seeing them
directly
H
yeah mine knows how to show my mom n
h i n d d my mind knows how to show my
mom's mind my mind mind knows how to
show my mom's mind Ty it's quite amazing
akil's mother Manisha kept telling me
look this isn't just telepathy this is a
shared Consciousness there's some sort
of merging that goes on and she was
saying things which I couldn't quite
understand yet in my process which was
she felt you know uh he often will maybe
use my Hardware or my neurology then I
thought oh what you know just really
wanting to understand and so she kept
showing me when I was doing little tests
like okay and actually I would I love
this because I had the crew write a
bunch of random words and I downloaded a
random number generator on the spot
again random word generator we did all
this stuff with aille and Manisha was
kind of like come on this is this is
like kids stuff like let me show you
really what this is and so after I was
satisfied with I mean we must have done
100 tests that day she was like okay now
you write a word so I wrote a word and
he'd start saying it verbally he can
kind of communicate through wordss or
he'd start spelling it and she would be
like now cross it out and start writing
another one and in the midst of Crossing
it out the second it's crossed out and
you start even thinking about the next
one he'd start writing the next one and
that's where she's like do you see what
I mean I'm not even having time to send
him this thought of we crossed out car
and now it's I don't remember what it
was piano or something the second that
the next word was starting to be written
he would know one day I was watching a
movie of athlete whose leg was amputed
and he got into Special Olympics and I
went upstairs to tell AK Akil come come
look I want to show you the story see
how people overcome their difficulties
and challenges he said yes I know he
doesn't have a have a leg and he is in
Olympics because he was watching the
show or something because I was watching
and he was upstairs so those thoughts
can get
transferred so she's like is this a
signal of Consciousness that we're both
sharing is he stepping into my own
Consciousness or what is that and I
don't think there is an answer for that
yet except for that is a widespread um
thing that the parents are talking about
I and yes you got it spelling and the
ability to communicate a lot of people
might be watching this and saying you
keep saying nonverbal how do they
communicate at all yeah so um every I
think the telepathy and the spiritual
gifts I don't know exactly but I will
say I think it's a mark of being a
non-speaker I don't think it has as much
to do with autism as it does
non-speaking autism and with the
non-speakers you know again so often the
doctors the Educators have had it wrong
thinking they're not in there they are
they're intellectually as solid as you
and me just can't control their bodies
and because they can't create Words
which which is a fine motor skill it's
pointing to letters which is you know
there's different techniques for that it
started with facilita communication that
merged into you know turned into
something called rap rapid prompting
method now there's spelling to
communicate there's different forms of
this of different processes to learn to
point to letters and and and you do have
to learn to be a communication partner
and that's really important um but I
found that the the colloquial word for
all of it is spelling that's a good
umbrella word to talk about all forms of
pointing to letters to communicate Y and
that can be independently on an iPad or
with a letter board and absurdly there
is some controversy around this format
of
communication uh what what is Asha and
and why do they have anything you know
bad to say about spelling and RPM and
some of these other techniques you know
Asha is the American speech language
pathologist it's the board that gives
people accreditation to um to work with
language and speech and Asha says that
spelling is not a valid form of
communication they've called it pseudo
science
um it is the most frustrating thing to
these parents and to the non-speakers I
mean my I I can't think of a more a
bigger human rights violation than like
you cannot have the means to communicate
in your classroom to in a workplace in a
social setting but when I was doing a
deep dive into this this is fascinating
that sign language uhuh it took like 150
years for that to be accepted is that
true even in the 70s you weren't it was
not encouraged to be to have sign
language in school you had the the
people who were heart of hearing or deaf
were told that they had to learn to read
lips or have like you know kind of
speakers on their ears hearing aids um
sign language was not accepted what
Louis Braille who was a young young boy
who kind of you know maybe a pre-teen
when he invented Braille he was at the
first school for the deaf in Fr in
France at the time there had and this
was interesting in France and all over
the world at the time um I'm sorry blind
the the blind Community was seen as not
in there not smart all the same thing
that n speakers are going through so
when Louis Braille was at the first
School for the Blind in France he he
kind of like um enhances this old
military kind of coding and he came up
with this idea for Braille and the when
a new Headmaster came into school he was
like this is pseudo science this isn't
real he locked away all the braille
books you can't learn this way and the
kids were like no this is really great
and they were doing it you know in
private but the authorities didn't want
Braille to be become a thing and when
the kids first tested you know showed
the authorities look I will punch out
these letters and this one will read it
and they kind of proved that Braille is
working people in the room watching that
where like it's a magic trick it's a
joke wow they obviously practice this in
advance yeah and so I was reading this
the history of Louis Braille and
thinking this is exactly what the
non-speakers are going through so it
makes you wonder why why have we always
the the reigning you know uh
communication class has such strict
views and restrictions over how someone
else can
communicate two two two
good four four the question that I asked
him was how did you learn all of this do
you have really good hearing and he said
I'm special and I said oh of course
you're special and he said I can hear
thoughts and I said I
questioned him and I said are you sure
you're telling the truth and he said to
me you don't get the kind of gifts that
I have if you lie so then I asked him a
question in my head without speaking and
he answered the question that I had
asked him in my head then I brought my
son and his friend up to witness it and
I had told the young man that was his
friend I said kit get a thought in your
head and sit there and don't think
anything but that and Houston spelled
out what that young man was thinking
then I called my daughter and she didn't
believe me she said no he can't mom I
said like send me something so she had
her husband tell her um something to
text she texted it to me he never saw
the text and he spelled out what was on
the text I think the Houston story is
incredibly powerful because it's so much
later in his his mother is she's amazing
and finds RPM at when he's 21 or so or
and or or what's the exact story there
yeah so you know Katie was a single mom
of five you know no help from her
ex-husband a pretty brutal guy and and I
can't tell you how much how beautiful of
a human being Katie is you know but
fighting against the world at every turn
um and it was really difficult because
Houston had the way his autism was
expressing himself I mean he was biting
through his hands like down to the
muscle at times
he was smearing feces on the wall you
know and Katie could not get through to
him didn't know how to help him and it
was years of just a lot of hardship and
Trauma and she's working full-time and
not getting child support and and it was
through I think what she would
definitely describe as a series of
Miracles of people putting spelling in
her path and she initially thought well
you don't know because Houston's
probably much more different than your
child you're I'm watching your child sit
here calmly and spelling and Houston
he's a different level ISM well that's
not true at all you know I think she
pretty much had given up hope on Houston
it took me a very long time to give up
hope a part of you breaks inside to give
up she tried everything nothing was
getting through to him and I think it
was the day before Thanksgiving when
Houston was about 18 Katie had you know
come home from working like multiple
jobs like shaking she was so tired on
the sofa and Houston came and sat down
and put his hand on her and he said Mama
and I was shocked cuz I had never ever
heard heard my son say my name he was 17
and I opened my eyes and he was looking
directly into my eyes which he had also
never done and he said I love you and
that moment for her was a miracle and
she's like wait he's telling me
something he is in there or he's knowing
how I'm feeling and so then she there
was a few examples of spelling that came
into her path and then eventually she
decided to try it Houston at first when
you're learning to spell it it doesn't
come quickly like often you're pointing
to like a board that has six letters so
it's bigger and more spaced out and then
maybe you're answering a question is it
this or is it that and they call it
getting open on the boards when you
first start communicating your own
thoughts and for Houston I believe that
happened when he was about 21 and then
it was amazing because she learned he
has rich rich knowledge of American
History he loves American history um
Rich knowledge of so much um and I mean
Houston's knowledge is phenomenal and
what I've learned from Kaden Houston's
story has been paradig shifting
throughout but you know even just little
things like I never understood why
people thought like crystals and rocks
had magic in them to me I was like this
is a cute thing we do as humans but and
I couldn't dismiss it but I just didn't
get it I didn't believe that and Katie
certainly did not either and then one
day after like a you know massage or
something Katie brought home a bunch of
like a bag of rocks and crystals they
were behind like her bedroom door her
bathroom door and Houston comes home and
like knocks through all doors and finds
the rocks and crystals Houston started
shouting Stones Stones stones and he
wouldn't stop and so I just was like
here take them I mean I didn't know what
to do with them so anyway I went into
his room a little bit later and he had
lined these three stones up on his
bedside table on the very edge and he
was lying on the very edge of his bed as
close as he could get to these Stones he
felt the energy coming from them and he
could name which each one was and felt
the frequency of each and he started
spelling when you're autistic you're a
magnet for all energy good and bad these
stones have good energy I need more good
energy and you know Katie has other
stories of coming home and buying like
crystals for a I think it was her
son-in-law hiding like Dice reden and
Dragons or something and like Houston
like came home from school and found
those cuz he could like hear them or
feel them energy
and stuff like that made me realize okay
so if I just missed telepathy and that's
real and I just missed the power of
crystals and that's real what else have
we dismiss that we we think of woooo or
you know this Airy Fairy stuff and it's
and it's true I want to uh stick with
with Houston who's who's so remarkable
so he he lives uh in Atlanta right and
there's kind of a cohort in in Atlanta
uh you want to talk about Houston's
friends and where they hang out yeah and
I want to say I think these cohorts are
everywhere it was just you know through
um through Katie and Houston um I was
led into this Atlanta cohort you know
but but there's cohorts everywhere so
that's and but one of the most beautiful
unbelievable things um that first it
started with aille and that's apparent
in episode two where he says he said
every non-speaker has this gift and I
kind of thought wow well that's a quite
a statement you know but then I went to
go meet Katie in Houston that's an
episode 3 and Houston repeats that every
non-speaker has this gift and revealed
that he and Houston's the one that
coined this term this the talk on the
hill which was this telepathic chat room
where non-speakers can tune in and
communicate with each other and um that
was hard to believe and then you know
Katie's like well you need to meet my
dear friend Libby and her son John Paul
John Paul goes on the hill and we went
to their house and John Paul went on the
hill and it was really cool he went into
his room and he put a bunch of pillows
on his head
and um Libby who's just like such a dear
again like beautiful human being was
just like this is what he does after
school he'll do this and he and he says
he's on the hill and I've learned about
it now that he's communicating with the
letter board and he's really formed
relationships there and she's like in
fact um like there was a young man his
name is zahari and he he's he was born
blind in an orphanage and was adopted
you know later in life and whatever but
zahari bom was bringing zahari to
Georgia he'd never met John Paul but
when zahari walked into the house he's
like hey John Paul blah they had this
whole relationship and they said it had
been built on the hill wow and so and I
say this in the series it took me a long
time to form my opinion or understanding
of the hill and I don't want to say
belief in it but like a like like maybe
it was a belief in it it was just so
hard to believe you know and and then
there's so many people from from desp
places talking about the hill it one was
a minister I met at a mega church um uh
I didn't meet him in person but I talked
to on the phone and his name is Joe and
he was saying that some of his uh kids
in his youth group were talking about
the hill he runs like a special needs
youth group um and would talk they'd put
they'd set them up with like other
non-speakers in other places and the
kids would talk about the hill you know
and then I met a teacher in Chicago and
her kids were talking about the hill and
it's just phenomenal and then Arthur
golden who's a dear advisor and has been
such a help on this whole project as
well and he's got a non-speaking son Ben
golden and they live in an very Ultra
Orthodox community in Israel they have
their own Hill wow and I've heard of
hills in Arizona Florida so I don't
think there's just one yeah um and
that's one thing I want to understand
and I I I will seek that question with
The non-speaker Advisory Board and
further in the film is the hill just
this part of this Collective
Consciousness where we can all hang out
is it like a separate place that you can
go to yeah to share ideas
how many Hills are there or is it just
all one Hill but you just find each
other like if you go to party or at
different parts of the room you know but
you're in the same place have you and Dr
Powell done any tests when it comes to
information transmission remotely on
this kind of Hill that well that's what
we want to do so that's we're kind of
coming up with our list of dream tests
for the film project and her storyline
in the film I want to culminate with
these tests right and and one will be
the telepathic you know message sending
um in a controlled way behind partitions
and with blindfolds and the other would
be having two or three uh non-speakers
in different locations to communicate
together um via the hill and try to
validate what each is coming back with
and saying what you just said about
Houston kind of uh just reminded me of
this amazing story that you tell of
Josiah do you want to tell this this
story of Josiah and Max Davis yeah yeah
that's incredible um
yeah and he's got book Josiah's fire so
that's another really good one um but
Max Davis is an author and um and
Josiah's mom started working on a book
so this is like forget just pocket max
Davis for a second so uh Josiah's mom
when Josiah started spelling was
absolutely floored by the amount of
spiritual messages he was saying his
first ever independent sentence was the
most mindblowing miraculous thing
because he had not spelled anything
beyond three to five letter words so
what was his first sentence God is a
good Gift Giver he was saying that you
know he communic came with angels He
said he was going to heaven how do you
know that and he spells Au and I'm
thinking he's going to spell autism or
something he goes on to spell a u n t i
e Auntie told an angel to tell me auntie
was my great aunt and she died at age 89
Josiah as far as I know had never heard
us talk of Auntie he wouldn't have known
Auntie he wouldn't have seen pictures of
Auntie how did he know Auntie he knew
things about a past relative Auntie that
you know and was communicating for
Auntie and this was just unbelievable
and when and they had never told them
about Auntie right no uhuh no so again
it was just unbelievable messages that
there's no way Josiah should know and I
think at the time he was seven or eight
and you know again the parents are not
taking this as face value they're trying
to figure out this mystery as well and
trying to prove it and validate it and
like what are they talking about and
here's a picture and who's this you know
that type of stuff so and again before
the telepathy tapes came out I think
that many of these parents were living
in their own Silo thinking they were
unique in this experience so she talked
to Josiah spelling communication teacher
and said you know he's talking about
going to heaven and seeing angels and
communicating with spirits who fast and
and the teacher was like that's his
special interest you know go on you know
and and the mom you know uh uh t was
thinking this is not a special interest
this is something very big so she writes
a book to to put this out there is there
anyone else out there experiencing this
and of course she's flooded with people
saying yes this is our story well anyway
in the very precursor of writing this
book she was working with a you know
kind of a ghost writer and um she's on
the call with the ghost writer one day
and the the writer you know said
something about another author she was
working with Max Davis and Josiah comes
home for school later on that day and he
starts spelling something very found
about somebody I have no clue who he's
even talking about and then all of a
sudden he uses this phrase that links
back to the conversation that I was
having earlier with Cheryl about this
guy Max he writes all this stuff about
Max like he's a major novel writer he
doesn't write like other people do he
was talking about how his house was
popping popping popping and then he says
are you a barn man Max like there's
animals or there's a Farm by you well
the writer goes and tells Max and Max is
really weirded out because the things
are on point it was about what was
happening in his house like this popping
noise and he was building a house it was
about being close to animals and like
does he live on a farm or is there a
barn nearby and it turns out that you
know yes there is like a barn right next
to his property with tons of animals on
it I'm thinking this lady's Looney she's
trying to get something from me it
actually made her cry cuz I'm a
skeptic so that's how it began bothers
Max because he's going what how does
this person know this because they were
building a new house and it was popping
popping popping they were using the nail
guns he goes to a motel and it's like y
you love your Motel time or something
and he takes a nap it's like a nap is
nice and then something about the like
his chapter was the fruit of something
and it was like so the first story there
was this this understanding so tnie
writes it to Max Max is totally weirded
out thinks she's on Google Chat you know
I mean uh Google Earth looking at this
and then the next one is Josiah says you
know Max went into the woods and was
praying last night and and that was like
really freaked out Max and then he
started to believe and then the next one
was this message from Josiah when Max
went to go right at this private Motel
on the beach on the thing the Gulf of
Mexico where he does this he he makes a
mixtape and he listens to the mix and
stuff and Josiah wrote something about
your music is being banded together you
love your sacred time at the motel
that's right and and Max by this point
is like oh my gosh and then another time
he's behind on a deadline for a book
he's writing he stays home he takes a
nap and he begged his wife to miss all
the appointments for the day and work
with him and anyway he takes a nap he
stays up really light late and he gets
this entire uh chapter called first
fruits out that's right and then Josiah
writes the next day you know I hope your
nap was nice um your hands were like uh
night Braille on you know something like
that like the spirit of night Braille on
your fingertips kept you through the
night and uh you got I hope first fruits
something things like he knew all the
facts and I don't have the quote in
front of me so I'm I'm butchering what
he said but the point is he knew about
the nap he knew about the name of
without Max having any communication no
no you know and Josiah was a a pretty
young you know he was a boy at the time
yeah and um and so no like these things
were happening privately with Max no one
knew and then Josiah knew and you know
we beautiful part of the story that I
didn't put into the podcast um just
because there's the length you have you
have to edit some stuff but you know Max
went to go visit Josiah at some point
and I think he was a little um you know
like it was a good Awakening for him
because Josiah like didn't want to come
up his room you know he was having
difficulty regulating he was having a
very hard time spelling that day he was
probably excited but Max really had this
realization of how difficult it is to um
to control often you know your body as
as a as a um non-speaker I want to talk
about John Paul uh who befriends Houston
and I think is the most moving part of
this whole story uh he's this gentle
giant do you want to talk about John
Paul JP yeah I mean John Paul he he was
he such a presence you know gigantic
like
68 um I think when I met John Paul he
was 14 or
15 and yeah he was like a younger
brother to Houston you know um John Paul
made a lot of loud noises you know he
was just this big guy he loved putting
stuff in his head and like dropping it
off and you know it just funny I mean he
was oh gosh and so and John Paul's
mother just loves him so unconditionally
and it was so beautiful to be in their
home cuz John Paul would often strip off
his clothes and just appear and I think
so many of us when we're going through
the world are constantly apologizing for
other people and you know hou and and
Libby just never she just embraced John
Paul like there he is John Paul put on
your clothes like you know this is our
house you're just getting used to that
like I loved it because it was just this
like unbelievable Joy wrapped of like I
just accept him I love him for exactly
who he is and and I looked at Lian and I
was like gosh I I want and all these
parents actually just like they're such
a great template of how to love your
children so many of us don't love our
kids unconditionally but I think all
these parents do in a different way than
most of us can imagine um and I don't
know if I should say what happens to
John Paul on this because I don't know
if I should I I I want people to watch
yes which which episode it's a nine the
kind of like I would say my finale like
how I concluded the story was with with
episode 9 and that has deeply to do with
John Paul and I think through John Paul
for me that was proof of afterlife yes
in the most profound beautiful way that
and and my dad who was a huge skeptic
walking into this called me yesterday
and he's like I am walking through a
cemetery with a whole new take on this
he's like I'm not feeling sad I'm just
so aware that like people survive and
that was after I listened to episode N9
and I thought wow Dad okay good if I got
to you then maybe we'll get to other
people and so I don't want to explain
exactly what happens with John Paul but
it might be obvious from what I'm saying
that
um uh he has quite a a message for all
of us at the end everybody go listen to
it because I yeah I was crying on a
plane I was I was listening to it and it
was just so profound and moving and
it'll make anybody Yeah question um you
know our conception of of of of life and
reality and uh yeah just go listen to it
so John Paul uh has a girlfriend and
they have this beautiful Bond and uh
it's almost like you know if you watch
Love on the Spectrum other that that's
that's so refreshing because it's this
like just there's no BS there's no
deception no no gamesmanship between
these relationships I feel like John
Paul and Lily and these non-verbal kids
take it to the next level where they say
that they're kind of telepathic Bond
increases their their love for each
other yeah for sure I mean can you
imagine like sharing everything
everything about one another
telepathically and I remember asking
Libby once cuz she said you know what
they go on dates or I'll pick them up
here and they'll go on a date and I said
what do that look like and she's like
well often they'll be on different
floors of the house and but they're
communicating they're doing something
and then when and then when they leave
John Paul will be like that was the best
day ever and and and I thought that was
just so sweet mean they he adores Lily
Lily adors Paul I mean their love was
real and it was enhanced deeply by you
know being on the hill and being able to
have mind to- mind communication and you
know Lily's in the in the in the season
and you know she says that that was from
the gecko their mind to- mind
communication JP uh you know is this
amazing uh character he's sort of uh
Larger than Life and he's also very you
know big big uh uh kid who's described
in the telepathy tapes and he has a
girlfriend named Lily and he seems like
this just very sweet loving character
and he's friends with this other guy
named Houston and they all meet up on
the hill um can you talk a little bit
about JP because I I find his story to
be possibly the most touching uh just
from a personal perspective oh yeah well
I mean yeah he was larger than life I
think he was like 6'8 mhm and um and he
liked there was this game he liked to
play where he loved to you like I I
drink a lot of water you know and I had
you know he loves to grab he'd love to
grab your bottle of water and put it on
his head and then drop it on
you so anyway so he you know he was a
character uh and he um had twin brother
who um not an identical twin brother his
brother's
neurotypical and um and his mother is a
speech language therapist wow who you
know was basically told um I mean this
is like what she's doing being was doing
with her son was like forbidden you know
it's like you know because you know the
people that Asha you know this the
speech therapist Association basically
says that you know spelling is you know
an RPM you know these different methods
that use you know pointing to letters as
a you know considered a form of
communication that you know that it's
not recognized why is that it's so
absurd why is it not
recognized I'm the wrong person to ask I
mean I could it's political yeah it it's
I mean if a kid is being is able to
point at letters and spell something out
why is that not seen as a valid form of
communication especially if cogent
sentences are coming out on the other
side of that you know it really it
really um it really surprised me that it
really is cont that that's
controversial and I mean it really
saddens me too of course yeah you're
you're kind of putting a child back in
cage of isolation without these
techniques yeah yeah yeah and um but yes
it's it's really um if you were to go to
um you know go to the internet you know
look up you know spelling spelling to
Communicator look at what you know it
says in Wikipedia or whatever and you'll
say that you know something along the
lines that it's pseudoscience you know
it you know you'll you you'll you'll see
those kinds of remarks you know that
it's attacked and so it's like wow if
they're gonna and this is part of why I
also have been doing my own thing
without being as public about it you
know uh until more recently is that it's
like if boy if they're going to attack
that even that's then then you know boy
what are they going to think about the
rest of all this right the actual
telepathic communication yeah if they're
going to attack just the communication
ability I mean I just don't understand
how you can dispute something where
somebody is clearly expressing things
that like mean something in reality and
serve you know certain objectives
whether it's like I'm thirsty get me
water or you know whatever the second
that that becomes like this you know
clearly adaptive useful form of
communication how do you write that off
especially when you're talking about a
kid who is silenced otherwise as far as
their ability to interface with the real
world or with our real world you know
like that it's just it seems uh inhumane
well it does and and so and and one of
the problems is is that some of the
people who've been the most against the
the idea of telepathy coming out have
been people who are part of the spelling
community and and and so it's it's one
of those things where you'll never you
know whoever it is you'll never you'll
never um make progress in advocating for
your rights if people are able to divide
you so anyway but so so John Paul though
um you know good friends with Houston
and you know and the two of them have
this telepathic communication with one
another they they live in Atlanta and
and John Paula has a girlfriend you know
named Lily you know and um and so and
and seeing the
love that these kids have towards their
parents and that their parents have
towards WS them is
incredibly you know touch it you know it
just touches your heart really does it
and it's coming across in the podcast
you you can only imagine how it comes
across in you know you know when you've
got you know the whole you know
experience of it you know not just that
hearing the voices I think uh you know
like a governor that you would place on
an engine I feel like a governor has
been placed on reality and like that's
coming off and I think what you get in
its place is it's almost like a a Hydra
situation you cut off one head you get
five others and or a Cambrian explosion
of ideas and possibilities and so I
think people assume that you know when
you when you get into a new paradigm or
something like one thing changes but no
I mean everything changes and this makes
total sense I mean it's fascinating to
see how energetically sensitive these
kids are in Houston being a great
example doesn't he go to like Stone
Mountain or something as well which he
loves because of the the energy there
yeah yeah and we hiked up Stone Mountain
when we were in Atlanta even Dr Powell
came with like we all hiked up Stone
Mountain and Houston gets the top of
Stone Mountain and is just so free and
you can feel like he's feeling all this
energy which made me think this
non-speakers Center that we create maybe
should go on top of a mountain you know
um but no he feels so much and and I
think what most of the parents would say
and the non-speakers would say as well
is that it has to do with them being
less tied to their body they're less
less bound to the physical world than us
and so they're more open to the things
that I think are natural they're not
Supernatural they're what surround us
but they have more an easier access to
it I couldn't agree more and it's funny
in virtual reality and in lucid dreaming
which you could think of as its own sort
of weird
simulation seeing your hands is this
like really important test for your
ability to embody in the the bound
simulation and so they often feel a
little disembodied or like they don't
they're not quite you know sensing their
own bodies yeah and I think the normal
you know conventional view is oh that's
handicapped but in fact there's a a
filtering or reduction going on on a
greater understanding when you are
embodied and when you are in the
simulation and so being able to dip out
of that simulation is a profound amazing
skill and if you look at the history of
humanity there's a great book called The
immortality Key by this guy Brian
mirescu and he talks about these mystery
rituals that everybody would you know
undergo and um it's sort of the the
tempor the temporary paralysis of the
physical body in order to you know reach
your primordial spirit and know that
there is something more here and it
feels like these kids
know that in a way that is uh so much
more like you know real true knowledge
nosis if you will than like the average
person kind of walking around and that
brings up this book which you were so
nice to give me and and and and I'm just
so honored to have and this is Katie and
and Houston and it's the book of heaven
and uh and they signed it for me which
was so sweet of them and it re it really
feels like um they have a con conviction
in in metaphysics that we just relegate
to mythology we just we call these
things sort of myths that you know maybe
that you go to church or you go to
synagogue or whatever and you you know
um or or a mosque and you you go through
the motions or whatever you don't really
believe that there's something there
they know that there's there's something
there yeah yeah and I would say that's
true of every everyone who's working in
an intimate way with a a non-speaker at
least that I've met I can't obviously
have a huge BRD brush but every single
person I've met with and hundreds and
hundreds of people emailing now with
their stories is that to to work
intimately with a non-speaker is to be
able to beautifully see the worlds they
can access the Realms they can access
which me saying something like that two
years ago would have made me laugh out
loud that I'd be on an interview talking
about
Realms they can access Realms that we
can't access they can see beings that we
can't whether you know I think some will
call Divine beings some will call them
light beings some will call them Angels
um
and and certainly spirits of those who
have passed that is often as common or
comes before the telepathy knowledge and
all of that stuff was of course Paradigm
shattering I mean I'm a non-fiction
documentary filmmaker that was
absolutely what is happening you know I
I there was like a lot of shots of
whiskey along the way lots lots of books
just okay now I have to read and read
and read and read and read
this and it's it's real it's real it is
happening and what's so beautiful is you
can't that's why like if someone now I
talk about this I was so bashful like I
said in the beginning talking about this
and now if I'm talking about it and
someone's skeptical or doesn't believe
it I'm just kind of like oh you're just
like a flat earther you know you're
stuck in the old Paradigm bless your
heart you
know and and I I I really do feel that
way once there's so some people living
right now that see how much more there
is and and I love that the non-speakers
these unbelievable people who've been
dismissed and marginalized and cast
aside are our guides in this and I think
that's the most beautiful thing um and
and and and because their message is one
of love and one of unity yes and it's so
beautiful to me because it comes back to
if we look into Antiquity of a lot of
our religions and faiths and all of that
comes back to love and unity and and
again like you said you kind of just
like go to church you go to synagogue
you go to you know mosque and you're
like oh love like how many people
actually believe in love and unity or
practice it in some way you know and at
the end of the day that's all that I've
heard the spellers want to talk about is
is love and unity and and even this was
really profound and I'm still getting to
grips with this so often they'd say you
know it's not just your thoughts we hear
it's your feelings that we feel and all
the feelings that you put out to the
world are being received and like made
manifest yeah and one speller and this
is going to be in episode 10 even said
if you don't know what your feelings are
and you can't process them like often
we're doing that work for you and that
dis
hearing our thoughts many of these
non-speakers as they say but also
feeling our feelings I mean of course
that would dis regulate a human being to
totally and this so comports with I mean
like Gabor mate's work or like you know
basically anybody would Inuit it as far
as like a a parent you know a kid
relationship where you do immediately
just absorb your parents energy and it's
fascinating to hear that explicitly
articulated because I think anybody
listening will latently kind of know
that like you are uh kind of embodying a
lot of your earliest experiences and you
can kind of synthesize this
scientifically with like the harlo
monkey test or whatever where you know
if the mother isn't present and there
isn't that you know the necessary kind
of tactile kinesthetic you know touch uh
you know that can have profoundly bad
effects um and so it just sounds like
like they're on another level of
sensitivity to this and it makes sense
right because our communication you know
it's it's praic to say that most human
communication is a 95% subl linguistic
body language or whatever and there's
probably opportunity cost in the
language itself yeah and language allows
for deception it allows for myth making
and all sorts of Confusion And if you're
just cutting that out and you're going
straight to the source that feels like
the the truee language is thing I'll say
is there's there are apparently
nonverbal tribes in the Amazon do are
you aware of this yeah and they they
experience very similar things and they
even call it the ancient language where
they beam information to each other and
sometimes they'll have language on top
of that but they'll go back to the
ancient language and and that's like the
low latency real communication yeah I
mean even in the in in the show the
telepathy tapes there's a young man
Asher who
who was a verbal autist he had words and
he eventually decided not to use them
because they were cumbersome and
difficult and so many will say like will
actually write about letters like our
obsession with using letters and like
words and and they are dishonest how
many times when when someone says how
are you would you answer that completely
disly I mean like 80% of the time you
know and so it's like if you can just
Kyle who's a wonderful man in um and a
non-speaker in England like at some
point conveyed that or me his mother did
that if if you say the word you know
Thanksgiving or Christmas or something
to someone you say a word but if Kyle
sends that message to you telepathically
you receive the smells and the feelings
and the music and the love and the
family and the taste of the food and the
decorations you receive all of it it's a
knowing like you said a complete knowing
and when I've talked to the non-speakers
about like what you know again I'm going
through the episode 10 right now which
is what they want us to do with this
knowledge I mean so many of them are
like if you guys could all kind of get
to this telepathic place that' be great
really evolve us and you know um I think
we are all capable of it because there's
glimpses where we've had it right where
you know someone is sick and you or
you're thinking about someone right
before they call we know it's there who
is
Amelia um so she's this she's this
little girl who lives in Wisconsin whose
um mother contacted me and um and she
had taken her daughter to the um
you know the the tord center there you
know because that's where darl trefford
who um was you know the the person who
was consultant on Rainman I mean that's
you know that's you know where he was
and that's was his Center and so i' take
her daughter there to be evaluated
because she has all of these different
abilities you know different you know
knowing different languages knowing you
know and she's in addition to being you
know telepathic with her mother and um
and she's one of the she's one of the
girls who said that she related to a
unicorn and she you know wrote this
story about how she um how she was an
you know she called it an ugly horse you
know that people thought weren wasn't
smart you know um and and said that you
know that she was a unicorn oh man then
she's probably talking about her
self-perception based on what other
people sort of think of her when in fact
she she is this beautiful amazing
unicorn but yeah she's this yeah she's
this beautiful amazing child and yet at
the time she wrote that poem her
self-esteem was affected because she
perceives what other people's
impressions are about her I mean you
know that that's the downside of being
so psychic is that you you you are
injured even when people aren't saying
anything by virtue of them thinking
things about you
that's so amazing yeah because you just
you know their conception of you without
even that needing to be articulated
exactly so people can think oh well I
treat you know people who are disabled
you know with respect or this or that
but they they're just thinking of their
outward behavior and they they don't
they don't realize that these these
children pick up on what you you know
really think tell us about Amelia
because I find her to be fascinating and
maybe among the most conventionally
regarded as just academically gifted of
all of these examples yeah I mean Amilia
is little still she's 10 you know and
and I I I I love all these moms so I'm
going to say this about every single mom
but you know I love her mom MOA and and
she felt really um familiar to me
because you know I'm from the Midwest I
I only moved from Chicago to Los Angeles
about six years ago and you know they're
Midwestern you know they're located the
Midwest and her mom emel's mom works in
copywriting and an ad agency and the
dad's former military you know they just
felt like very like yes like I
understand you very much you feel like
my brothers and sisters and friends from
high school and you know when marrow was
kind of first starting to understand
that Amelia was in there again it was
related to co she was at home with Co
she saw I mean not with Co they home
during Co homeschooling and she
discovered that Amelia was in there and
could spell and then that she could read
her mind and then that she was seeing
stuff that that Mora the mother couldn't
see she could see spirits and ghosts and
then she started saying that she knew
other languages and she could identify
hieroglyphics and knew Hebrew and
Portuguese and Spanish and so remarkable
yeah Ali showed Amelia some Hebrew and
Amelia Read It and translated it so Ally
showed her again today and Amelia typed
out what it meant I said but who taught
you Hebrew and she typed the rabbi then
I asked if there was anything else she
could read she wrote hyro I said
hieroglyphics and she wrote yes pictures
so Ally pulled up a few letters and we
showed them to Amelia and she knew what
letters they were written in
hieroglyphics and they were ones that
they hadn't looked up the meaning of yet
they just pulled them up and identified
them after Ally asked her if she saw
these letters before if it was the first
time and she wrote first time I asked
her who told her about hieroglyphics and
she said the God told the hieroglyphics
part I know like that if if anything
shows that there's another epistemic
pathway way of knowing than just like
reading a book like the kind of
inductive like H it's going to take like
two years to like learn Baseline Spanish
or whatever Amelia is the perfect
example well and one thing I love about
Amelia and Mora and I I mean all the
parents get this we all understand the
layers of Skeptics that are going to be
out there and how you need to prove it
by or validate it at least by having
other people witness it and what's
beautiful in all these stories many many
many many people witness it what I love
in Amelia's case is the school her
teachers her therapists the principal
all witness this all have experienced
this all know it and it wasn't the
mother Mora there when she was talking
about hieroglyphics it was her you know
I think it was like her spelling
therapist and her babysitter or
something I don't remember the exact
people in the room right at this moment
but it was two people and they they know
about the mind reading so they're being
very careful of like Okay show her
hieroglyphic image that we don't know
what it is cu otherwise she'll pluck it
from her mind instead of just proving
that she knows it and these are the
gymnastics that the families and the
teachers and now I am also doing with
the kids is of or I don't want to say
the kids the non-speakers is often it's
like wait do they know that or are they
picking up for my mind so you got to
clear your mind or not know what you're
showing them so they did that with
hieroglyphics and sure enough she would
say what each one was and then they'd
look it up and it was what she said it
was so how do you make sense of that
unless there's more going on there's
definitely more more going on she
attributes it to the gods at times
teaching her or her Rabbi she's talked
about a rabbi wow she's talked about God
she said she said an angel has taken her
to see God she said Gods once or twice
um uh in in one point I think she talked
about the doy Lama as well so just this
beautiful you know like like group of
traditional spiritual leaders and
Prophets if you will I I need to get uh
into that classroom that that's the best
group of teachers you could that's
amazing yeah yeah and and and like I
said she's not the only one that will
say those messages and again like the
first time you know Amelia said it I
mean Mora and I her mom and I would like
be zooming and talking on the phone a
lot and we'd be like what does that mean
like do you think she meant that or what
I mean just we're both trying to process
it too yeah and what's so beautiful
about Mora is she she was saying she's
like you know I don't go to church that
often I didn't take AIA to church it's
not like she's getting this from us you
know or the or the synagogue or you know
a Buddhist temple it's like where was is
coming from yeah I can imagine this
whole experience of the telepathy tapes
coming out as cathartic for you because
you've probably spent a lot of your
career trying to get off home plate as
far as scientific consensus even taking
this
seriously and now there's just you know
all these different Avenues you can
explore as far as the implications and
getting deeper as far as you know causal
mechanisms for how this stuff works uh
whereas before it was probably just like
hey guys this is real like look over
here yeah yeah exactly exactly it's
amazing and I I want to make something
very clear as well for the audience uh
we're practically anonymizing these kids
and families we're just using first
names there's no 15 seconds of Fame
motive here none of them have been paid
is that right of course not no so it's
like and then you have in Amelia's case
like her Spanish teacher is like yeah I
don't know what to say she knows more
Spanish than my kids yeah and so yeah
it's it's just remarkable and uh yeah
just I do think it's important for the
average listener to just know that
there's no incentive whatsoever being
provided for these kid it's really about
allowing their voices to be heard yeah I
mean I think the families and I have a
few deeply shared goals and I mean I
have these goals because they do right
and one is for the world to presume
competence you see a non-speaker you can
say hi to them and it can be in your
mind too hey I know you're in there like
great shoes whatever it doesn't matter
just treat them as you would someone
else you know presume competence let's
validate spelling and get into schools
this is not pseudo science it's
complicated there's a beautiful I think
spiritual element to it I think that
when you understand what the
non-speakers are capable of and they
might dip into our neurology or they
might even use their parents' eyes that
stuff does make spelling complex and
fascinating and interesting it doesn't
mean it should be disregarded it means
we have to meet the spellers where
they're at and let them communicate and
I think the third is the paradigm shift
is that we are not acting as we should
be as human beings we need to be meeting
each other with love and acceptance and
unity and those aren't just silly words
and I I I think what I what I have
learned from them is to understand that
your Consciousness survives death and um
and our thoughts and our feelings become
manifest in this world and if we can
control those things how much will
change the earth in which we're living
we are fully audited at all times by
whatever communication modality we're
talking about right now and if we were
to really not just you know clean up our
our room make our bed but like look
inside yeah I think everybody would say
they have work to do and I think that
would make us a lot more uh
compassionate and forgiving yeah when it
comes to other people because
everybody's got stuff they've got to
they've got to work through and it's so
interesting and ironic that we call many
of these kids you know disabled or or
different than when in fact on that
Dimension which is probably the most
important Dimension they're like way
more advanced than all of us right no we
have the disability that's
right yeah it's so amazing and it brings
up all sorts of questions that you kind
of discuss in episode one and two as
well is like how is this happening what
is the method of transmission and this
is we should caveat all speculative we
don't know what we do know is that this
is happening in a statistically
significant way it needs to be taken
seriously by science um but it's
interesting I have a a good friend
actually who um was at the Princeton
parasym remote perception instead of
remote viewing and I'd always be like
what are you talking about remote like
why is that like a distinction at all
and I do notice in both Mia and ail's
case they have a particular connection
with one of the parents where it's
almost this low latency mind meld yeah
and so yeah do you want to speak to that
yeah I do you know because I again like
as important as the studies are for
Skeptics and stuff like that the stuff
that really moved me to the point of
completely cracking up in my Paradigm uh
was hearing what the parents would talk
about so one of the things that Manisha
talked about was look this isn't again
just sending information I could be
watching a movie
upstairs and he could be or downstairs
and he could be in a whole another room
of the house you know playing on his
iPad can't hear anything and I could
come back up and he'll tell me exactly
what happened in this movie or she said
or I could be reading a book and S you
read book silently to yourself and she
would ask ail later a question about
what she' just read in the book and he
could answer correctly like where does
this character live and he'd write you
know San Diego or whatever and and or
she'd say you know I could be away at
school he'd be at school and I'd go run
errands and I'd come home or he'd come
home from school and he'd say you know
how was Target how was Walmart why
didn't you get the chocolate at Trader
Joe's or whatever so he would know
exactly what she did and so that's where
it becomes more than just telepathy it's
some sort of beautiful merging and I
just can't emphasize enough that for
these parents who have been had their
hope shattered were told that they would
never connect with their child their
child wasn't in there Beyond learning
that they're in there that they're
intelligent that the the greatest gift
is that their connection is so much more
profound than any of us could ever
imagine totally and I think the greatest
loss for so many people when they're
when they have a child with autism is
this fear will I ever have this like
loving sweet bond with my child and yeah
quite the contrary yeah yeah yeah and it
it almost feels like um an extreme
version or a at the limit version of
just a general connection that you know
kids have with their parents often like
uh rert sheldrake who is uh very well uh
uh displayed in in the telepathy tapes
and who's a friend of mine and an
amazing scientist um he uh talks about
you know kids knowing when their parents
are near and this sort of Mind meld
connection occurring in statistically
significant ways I think a lot of the
issue in the past with
parasytes are weak and so what I think
is so fascinating about the telepathy
tapes is you have uh Dr Diane Powell
saying this is often n usually 90% plus
hit rates that's really hard to argue
with it kind of shatters you know any
skeptic kind of coming in and um yeah I
find that fascinating and I I think
because of this we might see a really
cool kind of epistemological Paradigm
Shift like term been my goal the whole
time you know is to shift the Paradigm
but but this is one of I I sometimes
look at the Paradox here as a beautiful
Paradox and the Paradox is that testing
non-speaking individuals that have a
very difficult time um controlling their
bodies and you know often are um
experiencing you know high levels of
autumn somewh you might not want to be
out of your comfort zone and it's hard
to travel and noise can be tricky and so
the idea of taking a non-speaking
individual and throwing him in a par
Faraday cage and like do your thing is
different than someone else and Dr Dian
Dr Paul and I have had so many
conversations about this which is how do
we create a comfortable loving yes
situation to test this that is
completely airtight but where it won't
be bright lights and overwhelming inputs
and new inputs where they'll feel safe
and secure enough and so when we've
talked about trying to fundraise for
this next phase of research that will be
in the film I was like we got to like if
we go to UVA great but like can we put
down carpets and bring in yes crystals
and candles and sofas and things their
blankets and everything that makes them
feel safe because it's it's you know and
and there is then the Paradox I'm
getting too is when you talk to the
speakers they don't get why you need the
proof this is just this is just this
beautiful gift I have this is what this
is and um and why do you need your
instruments to know it exists and I I I
love that because it's like I don't need
instruments to know it exists I don't
think any of the parents or anyone in
this world the teachers there's so many
teachers and therapists no one needs
instruments you see it because we are
instruments right human beings are we
are showing you what we can do as human
beings and I think there's this darling
again like material real IST view of
like but we must measure it and we must
blah blah fine I think we'll do it and I
think we're going to find the right
Pairs and get them in the right
situation to give that proof but I hope
with this podcast we can realize the
proof is of often and just the person
sitting across from you you know
absolutely and I think in many ways we
were talking about this earlier we have
more to learn from them than they from
us like they are they've moved on
they're in the next sort of Paradigm and
they're sort of bringing us along with
them and I think if we apply this uh
materialist view of like we must
immediately instrumentalize the part we
can isolate into a technology and like
they are you know part of the
instruments that is a horrible way to
look at this yeah um and so I'm totally
with you and to the extent we can um get
you the resources you need to to build
this sort of Institute that maybe even
as a a first thing allows them to just
feel heard and happy and like have a
community and then incidentally you know
we can we can learn more about the world
as a result that would be a beautiful
kind of kind of goal yeah just go listen
to it yeah and and you know in episode
92 there's a a neurotypical woman who
has a head injury that is able to touch
the space that non-speakers can touch
and I think that's we see that often
with there's a choir ton syndrome right
where someone has a horrible head injury
and can suddenly play music do math see
math everywhere um uh paint sculpts I
mean there's really unbelievable things
that have happened with severe head
injuries how can Neuroscience explain
that and and it's ably did it and then
there's all these other cases that are
like that where people would all of a
sudden be a mathematical genius or a
musical genius in fact that's part of
the vector of how Dr Diane Powell got
into this right these Savant like like
people like Kim Peak and Rainman where
clearly whatever learning is going on
there belies some sort of form of
cognition or Consciousness that again is
not this kind of multi-year like
inductive learning process you're just
sort of downloading vast swaths of
information well it's interesting to me
that often it's emotional or physical
trauma that can open you up to these
gifts and to these other worldly
abilities like let's think about that
for a second but then um yeah as far as
one thing Dr Powell said to me early on
when I was really trying to understand
Consciousness and how this all works you
know and especially with the head
injuries and and Savant skills that come
with that um you know she's like I think
of it as like if your brain is like your
smartphone right and like every
smartphone would had different apps on
it but your smartphone it can maybe turn
on but it won't be like animated and
like come to life without a signal
coming from somewhere else and and that
made a lot of sense to me and and you
know some people will say well why then
if you have a head injury won't you be
able to talk anymore you won't be able
to do this and I think it's the same
thing if you think of like a piano and a
piano player right like to make music
like a piano needs a person it needs a
Consciousness to you know IM it with
this beautiful you know artistic you
know you know fervor that comes out of
it the piano has to have a piano player
the piano player has to have the piano
it's like our Consciousness and our mind
or our soul I'm sorry yeah our soul and
our body yeah it made me think that you
know that where where does information
even reside you know when you have
somebody like Kim PE
um a lot of people thought he was
autistic he he actually had
hydris and so he was born with this um
defect in his ability to process the
cerebral spinal fluid and so there was
pressure that built up in his head and
that's why he had a larger head than
normal and his head's always tilted like
this because it was so heavy he could
barely hold it up and in addition to
having this big area where his um in in
the center of his brain where it's just
cerebral spinal fluid
his his um his skull bones are slightly
separated from one another but most
importantly he has no Corpus clome and
that's the bundle of fibers that connect
the left and the right Hemisphere and so
be so he was somebody who had a very um
he didn't have all of the connections
that we think of a brain is having and
yet here he was somebody who could
recite word for word backwards and
forwards 12,000 books yeah and that's
just part of what he could do right and
so it's like where does that information
reside you know and I thought you know
this this model that Neuroscience had
doesn't make sense for memory because it
it's it it's really it it works fine for
something like you know um some of the
models within Neuroscience work fine
like you know like oh you know if you if
you hit my knee you know there's this
knee-jerk reflex and I can explain that
you know using you know my understanding
of how the nervous system works very
simple um but something like memory
we're still trying to figure that out
I'm a big fan of this transmission
Theory Of Consciousness so like William
James Alis Huxley they would say the
mind is probably more like a radio than
like it's just like locally producing
Consciousness and if you have a radio
and it's play say it's playing bal's
Four Seasons or something you could take
out the capacitor or the battery or mess
with the antenna and it would stop
playing the music and you could say oh
those parts that Hardware is responsible
for the music but in fact it's you would
have to understand you know
electromagnetism to know that it's
tapping into a frequency that's playing
this beautiful music I think it's the
same with brain injuries where yeah you
mess with brok's area and speech gets
shut down or you mess with War's area
and reading comprehension you know
whatever occipital lobe for vision but
how that's all Binding Together and
playing the Beautiful music theal Four
Season of like every everyday life is
just uh irreducible and it's we're
probably tapping into something while
researching radio waves one night I
stumbled across this amazing story I had
some dental work to be done you know
they put in temporary fillings this is
beloved Starlet Lucille Ball sharing a
story from around the time of World War
II when she had to get several temporary
fillings put in the upper and lower
parts of her mouth all of a sudden I
heard music and I turn looked down to
turn off my radio and it wasn't out I
turned around looked to see if there's
anyone behind me and the music was
getting louder and louder and louder I
realized it was in my mouth so the next
day I mentioned it to at the studio to
Buster Keaton and he said uh where what
street were you on more Park and I said
yes he said you went by the radio
station you picked it up were you got
any
fillings I said yes he said you picked
it up on your te you have these stories
like you know do you want to tell the
Lucille Ball story do you know what I'm
thinking of where oh you're talking
about with her with her tooth yeah well
actually I had a patient like that
really yeah yeah I mean they talk about
it you know in the telepathy tapes but I
had a patient um you know 25 30 years
almost 30 years ago who had you know a
filling and she was you know getting you
know radio signals off of it and and I
and and I knew already knew about that
as a psychiatrist cuz I was always
looking for explanations for why people
have these different phenomenon I
already knew there was a case report
about that wow and so and so rather than
hearing this woman say whatever I just I
and thinking oh you know let me give you
your antis psychotic I thought you know
I read about that so so uh and then when
she had the filling you know T taken out
you know it went away and she yeah
that's amazing and I think Andre
puharich had a similar case where he
found some guy who was like working in
some metal Sawmill or something and a
bunch of you know uh metallic ore got in
his teeth and he was hearing it's it's a
concept called bone induction right and
he was hearing things inside of his head
and he wasn't crazy it was just
literally it points towards this
transmission Theory Of Consciousness the
fact that you're able to tap into a
radio signal through your teeth and then
that somehow becomes you know something
you listen to it's interesting too I
wonder if that dobet Tales at all with
the um alien abduction phenomena because
I was just with an experiencer named
Mario Woods who um was at El Ellsworth
Air Force Base in South Dakota which is
a you know nuclear uh base and you know
he had a q clearance and he was guarding
these icbms and you know this pretty
serious hardcore job and he got abducted
by aliens and he was checked by a
medical doctor afterwards and they
checked his teeth so that always kind of
struck me as like I don't know is there
something going on there what do you
make of Andre puharich and his program
in upst state New York where he took all
these kids who seem to have high
telepathic sigh powers and they would
just Channel and they would talk about
the nine and they would uh say all sorts
of really interesting ontological
cosmological things about how the
universe works and it's hard to say you
know whether any of this stuff was was
was true but I mean I think your
research should at least make us relook
at that research and say you know maybe
there was some truth to to to that and
where do you think you know that
research went because Pur rich is this
odd character he was at Northwestern and
he was kind of tied in with you know MK
Ultra like you know CIA brainwashing
stuff and so yeah I guess where do you
think that all went because there seems
to be this big gap between that and like
now we're experiencing this Resurgence
and I think you have very indifferent
inten
than he did and then the people around
him did but yeah what what do you make
of all that research oh you know I I'd
like to you know know more about it I
mean I you know in the sense that um I
mean I've looked into some of the stuff
you know uh but um I mean a lot of it I
mean who knows it you wasn't he funded
at least in part by the CIA yes he was
yeah and so you know I don't think that
it's like accessible you know
information um and um you know I've
heard him talk about things like scalar
waves yeah you know and extremely low
frequency yeah yeah are you familiar
with the SC scalar physics and stuff
yeah yeah yeah okay what do you think
about that I think it's a very
interesting idea you know it I mean
and there there's a physicist in Germany
who who calls himself it's I think it's
Constantine M yeah who calls himself
like the modern Tesla you know and I've
looked into his stuff and think of his
stuff I'm fascinated by this yeah yeah
um wait a little context for the
audience so scalar physics is this idea
that if you actually more Faithfully
adhere to the original 21 Maxwell's
equations and and in kind of classical
electrodynamics not the condensed Vector
calculus equations of Oliver heavyside
who followed up after Maxwell that that
allows for uh this the existence of this
new scaler field um where you can get uh
electric and and and magnetic potentials
or sorry where you can get scalar and
Vector potentials without traditional
magnetic and electric Fields present and
in this scalar field you get all sorts
of exotic wave types outside of your
normal transverse herian wave and one of
the wave types is called Helio coidal
waves and that seems to match up with
you know like double helical DNA and so
uh Constantine mile is studying these
sort of scalar waves in the the context
of like botany and stuff where he'll
like make flowers grow in beautiful ways
using these scalar longitudinal HELOC
coidal waves it's I'm fascinated by it
we're going to have to schedule another
time to talk we're gon to have to
go I think I think you and I could talk
for a long time about a lot of things we
definitely could yeah yeah we could
definitely talk about it yeah but but I
really think that I mean it makes it
makes sense to me that scaler waves
could be involved and and there is
there's more than one instance okay
where you have in physics yes uh this
the kind of thing my brother and I who's
a physicist have talked about a lot and
other friends of mine who are physicist
you know where what they do is they just
they they treat something as though it's
null they treat it as though it doesn't
exist because it simplifies their
formula mhm and you know and and the
main thing that they're looking at you
know it um it like it works okay MH okay
it so it works okay to just treat it as
ozero and they they just drop it off
okay and I think that one of those
things is you know the you know the the
the you know the scaler wave component
you know of you know electromagnetism
yeah and and and I mean the original
equations you know were I mean there
were far more of them you know there
there was far more complexity there and
it's just like H you know we don't need
this we don't need that we'll just give
you this you know it's amazing and and
similar thing for you know the the the
experiment that was proposed to um prove
that ether didn't exist yes and Michael
SLE experiment in 1890 yes and um
Beverly Rubik who's a biophysicist um
and Harry Jabs who's a physicist they
looked at that data and and and they
wrote a paper basically saying well wait
a minute there actually was an effect
and how large of effect were you
expecting and this is actually in the
magnitude that we would expect so it's
like some effect there is an effect yes
and and it's and it's also the absence
of evidence is not the evidence of
absence so even if there wasn't an
effect you can't definitively disprove
The Ether and then if you read in this I
think it's 1921 or two paper you know
special relativity was supposed to
negate The Ether and then Einstein
writes later in his career he says
actually general relativity is totally
compatible with an ether and then if you
look at Quantum electrodynamics which is
really the tip of the Spear of like
modern science you know with Fineman and
stuff the the we have vacuum energy you
have energy everywhere so it's like the
ether is back yes it is it sure is the
ether is back and and so and I think
scaler waves are you know are are making
a comeback too I think so as well yeah
and and so um so I think it's it's an
exciting time for science yes because
we're we're it's like we're
rediscovering what had been discovered
but we're now ready to actually you know
move forward with it I agree and I think
Tesla discovered it I think another guy
named Thomas Townsen Brown discovered it
and I think it often involves kind of
high voltages across short distances and
when I speak to some pretty deep
government people they often say you
know there's there's a there there when
it comes to Extended electrodynamics
there's a guy named Lee hely who
publishes on it uh there's an anonymous
Navy scientist that showed up in one of
my documentaries that talks about
extended electrodynamics and it's just
this thing that
continuously comes back and I initially
cataloged it as you know low probability
and maybe hard to detect but uh I'm
learning more and more about it and from
very credible people to the point where
I I somewhat High conviction that
there's that there's something there and
yeah to your point about the equations
the lorence equation you know the vector
and scalar potentials were just set to
zero out of pure expediency and then you
have things like the B arof effect where
it seems like they you know even without
a magnetic field present uh there are
potential is present and so this is sort
of explained Away by the electromagnetic
for potential but that's a very poor
explanation and uh I think the
not only is the jury still out I think
it's going to move towards this extended
model very very soon and I'm excited
about it I mean they're obviously maybe
dangerous dual use implications but
hopefully it unlocks you know really
good stuff as well do you know that cod8
nucleus and paman are you yeah I know
about that yeah that that's a part of
the brain that I find fascinating
because um a friend of mine named Gary
Nolan at Stanford he's a
microbiologist uh he studies this area
of the brain the more neuronally dense
it is the more kind of executive
functioning somebody seems to display
but by executive functioning it's really
just kind of what we would call psychic
intuition and in fact I think there's uh
you know a study where you hook up uh
somebody's brain to an fmri and they're
playing the game of Go and when they
make a quote unquote brilliant move
which is a move that doesn't make any
sense in the context of you know the the
game and where it's at but it makes
sense in the context of an end point
that they almost have to psychically
know about that part of the brain lights
up and apparently when a person takes
iboga that part of the brain lights up
which you know people seem to get you
know have these sort of visionary
experiences this is this kind of
psychedelic African tree bark that's
been ingested for thousands of years and
so uh you know I think I wonder if that
part of the brain is somehow part and
partial to this uh different
epistemological pathway that is uh
immediate download Based or something MH
I don't know yeah well it'll be
interesting to see I mean you know the
um as I said the um I really think that
um the ventricles and the um the cyia
that that you know line them you know
this CIA containing cells that line them
um are are huge
um you know huge component of this whole
mind
okay but what you also need to know most
people won't know this because they
don't know neur Anatomy is that the Kate
and the bhaman are real close to the
ventricles okay so so imagine it as
being that you know this is you know
like the
sensory section uhhuh and the Kate and
the paman are then the the processors of
that sensory you see what I'm saying
it's like um yeah it's right next to the
receptors yes yeah yeah so it's like
kind of the first
like encoder of the information exactly
that's amazing yeah that's my own Theory
nobody else has said that all right you
heard it here first yeah that's really
exciting yeah we should be studying that
more I mean I'd be curious cuz you can
literally do MRIs on people that seem to
have more paranormal experiences seem to
be more quote unquote psychic or have
predictive accuracy in these sort of
controlled experiments and they're more
neuronally dense in that area and it's
often runs through families and seems to
be hereditary and so I wonder if some of
these kids took these MRIs if they would
have more neuronally dense Cate nucleus
nucleuses and pamment yeah well we do
know that um there there definitely are
studies that show um uh differences in
the Cates of autistics interesting okay
so you already know that I didn't
realize that that's
amazing wow yeah yeah and the same thing
for people who are schizophrenic and and
so that you know a lot of what we label
schizophrenic you know might be you know
something else because I know that
that's kind of the training of
psychiatrist is to label somebody as
schizophrenic if they report a lot of
these phenomena yeah I don't really
believe in the DSM I don't
either yeah it just you just put
somebody in a box and you slap a label
on the thing and it sort of creates this
learned helplessness of like okay now
treat it bio chemically with a thing
instead of like what does that mean why
do you have that and could it be
adaptive in certain ways and then could
it also be you know could you overcome
it in other ways and it's way more
pliable than just like this you have
this thing like Go away You're not
normal you know yeah I I I just always
found I mean the DSM you know is really
primarily a tool that is used by
attorneys and health insurance companies
um for their purposes you know health
insurance companies use it as a tool to
say okay um uh for that diagnosis is
What treatments are we going to
authorize that someone can have uh and
for lawyers it's you know for for those
diagnoses what kind of you know punitive
Dam you know compensatory damages can we
you know ask for yeah you know so it
it's it's it's strictly a um created as
a description it's it's not a
description of the truth it's a
description of um clinical syndromes
that it's it's changed like three times
in my career you know it it's a
description of them that then is used
for those purposes but but it we
shouldn't be locked into it as thinking
that um it's describing reality and it's
it's symptomatic superficial it's often
like behavioral superficial Maybe One
Step better is it's superficial but it's
like a thing the body seems to be like
it's like a you could say a fever right
but then you're slapping you you're
saying this person has this disease or
this issue or whatever but like a
million things could cause a fever you
know and so like even the biological
stuff is completely overdetermined and
you need to actually splice out what are
the underlying causal factors of this
stuff and so yeah I hope we I hope we
end up with a new model that's that's
better absolutely and that was I mean
what where I trained at John's Hopkins
um we were taught to really look
for um various different causes of a
syndrome we knew it was was a syndrome
and that could have multiple different
causes and so we would look for it well
a lot of syndromes have a biological
cause as and if you treat their um you
know they've got too much calcium okay
if you treat their hypercalcemia okay
then XYZ symptoms go away right okay um
or hyperthyroidism or hypothyroid you
know there's there's a number of
conditions that are caused by medical
things so so that's why we train in
medicine first you know and and to look
for those
sometimes it's um psychosocial okay so
we want to have a good psychosocial
history and and and understand
psychology understand sociology maybe
that's the problem maybe it's a really
you know family Dynamics or or
problem sometimes you know it's um that
you you'll hear somebody say something
and it's really a spiritual crisis for
them yes okay you know um because and
maybe they experienced some devast
you know experience and and so what I
discovered though early on is that
because I was taking histories from
people and trying to think you know okay
asking them about everything everything
from their physical well-being to you
know their you know what kind of
thoughts they had what kind of you know
feelings they had Etc um I you know I
would listen to their stories and try to
think of you know okay where's the
intervention going to be is it that I
need to intervene in terms of you know a
medical condition or um you know
referring for Psychotherapy or do
Psychotherapy myself and I'd listen to
the stories and some of the stories that
were the wildest stories that you would
think oh my gosh I'd later find out we
true and so sometimes you know the thing
that you think oh well you know maybe
this is a sign of psychosis or or
somebody who's you know a pathological
liar or whatever you know go no there's
actually another possibility and that is
that this is the truth and it's just
that you yourself have not ever
experience anything like it but it
doesn't mean that it's not totally the
truth hopefully by enabling these kids
with these communication methods uh we
can allow them to to come out more do
you feel like they want us to know their
abilities because that almost feels like
a part of your mission is uh letting the
world know that these are not only uh uh
humans they're extraordinary humans and
uh and is that do you feel like they
they also have this drive to be known
for sure I mean I would not be doing
this if it wasn't for that you know and
and I think deeply I think they want us
to know ourselves as much as they want
us to know and appreciate and see them
and to validate them um but it's been
lovely or validating for me to hear how
many non-speakers are so excited about
the telepathy tapes I'll get little text
messages of parents showing me them
listening or listening over and over and
you know feeling for the first time
maybe by some seen validated heard and
not often their parents know but now the
parents have a way to say I'm sing this
to Aunt Judy you know I'm saying this to
Grandpa and maybe he'll believe me now
so I think the fact that in their own
circles they're getting the respect that
they deserve finally yes the validation
that what they're talking about is
absolutely real absolutely critical to
all of us you know and um I I I for from
every speller that I've had contact with
um they're very very excited and and I
think have foreseen this time as being a
part of where we're all headed and I
think they would say that this is all
part of a of a I mean there's many parts
of it but um a step forward in our own
human evolution to get back to who we
really are how can we better tap into
this Paradigm individually just
ourselves because I don't know there's
there's like the you know intellectual
version of it where which one of the
kids like puts on a hat and like
downloads like F Scott Fitzgerald novels
that's Houston yeah it's so remarkable
so there's like that there's that
element and then there's just the love
and unity element which is probably most
important yeah H how how do we
effectively uh you know listen to the
telepathy tapes and Come Away with the
right takeaways and and operationalize
this in our own lives yeah I mean you
know the work of Julia mossbridge and I
think she'll talk about love being like
essential to S abilities it is yeah and
it is and I think part of the
unconditional love you see from the
parents to the non their non-speaking
children but and teachers to their
non-speaking students but also from the
non-speakers to these individuals being
so often hopefully being patient and
giving and loving and sacrificing to try
to take take care of them you know in in
a very difficult body often and that is
a situation surrounded with love and
sacrifice and it is within that
situation where these beautiful things
um these beautiful gifts manifest most
easily and even if you think about your
own life right where you might have had
a moment of seeing a dead I'm sorry
loved one right before they passed or um
knowing something is like really wrong
with someone that you care for it's
because you love them usually right it's
usually in a moment of like fear for
them or their life or their well-being
so I think a lot of these things come
back to love but we know it's part of us
because the Vikings talked about it like
Celtics did the Native Americans did you
know I mean all of this stuff is part
and parcel of being a human being I
think our Reliance on language and our
cloudiness around materialism having for
the past you know 3 400 years believe
that the only things that are real are
what you can measure and observe um
that has harmed us it's taken us away
from who we are because I think if you
were to go back in time and ask people
about telepathy it wouldn't be like you
need to go prove that that's just part
of the human experience it would just be
like asking someone to go prove love
well how do you do that you know right
and I think about in um Dr Ian Stevenson
from the University of Virginia he was
studying past lives and children and
when he went to India and he was like
I'm trying to prove you know past lives
they're like why are you trying to prove
that we already know it's real you know
and so I think that's you know I'm not
making a comment on reincarnation I'm
just saying like I think that's the same
idea is that we're trying to prove
something that is just part of our being
it's not paranormal it's normal it's
it's super normal yeah it's uh it's so
interesting yeah it's like with the
whole UFO disclosure conversation you go
to South America or something and
they're like yeah we talk to Star people
all the time we have you know uh rituals
that involve them and but it's like but
we're going to be the one our government
is going to disclose this there's going
to be a file and we're going to sort of
let it out and uh that same friend I
mentioned prior who um you know studied
at the prinston parapsychology lab for
for decades who I just in my mind Beyond
reproach just a really good person and
and Beyond rigorous as well and incred
one of the smartest people I know um
would say that you know you take these
random event generators that was his
like staple experiment and so you're
tying you know this one zero output to
something that's you know conventionally
thought of as random in quantum
mechanics so uh you know radioactive
isotope Decay or something like that
which with a known statistical
distribution over a long enough time
scale you expect there to be the same
amount of ones and zeros because it's a
perfect digital coin flip you know
within a standard
deviation and there's a real effect that
your mind can have on the output and the
Dirty Little Secret that like he's like
yeah you know this is well known in reeg
random event generator circles is that
your heart centeredness is somehow
commensurate with your ability to affect
the output on the random event generator
and so yeah if that isn't like a new
religious movement I I don't know what
what is you know it's it's really this
amazing thing where it's like know your
mandate is to go within and if there are
any kind of impure intentions to like to
to fix that because that is literally
your uh it's also your your kind of
ability to render the material world in
a way it's so interesting yeah and I
don't know if I talked about this in the
series or not but you know um for the
teachers who were able to build a
two-way telepathic link with their
students which is a phenomenon in and of
itself teachers hearing their students
back so two-way telepathy I mean right
there that proves that we can do this
again I don't know if the non-speakers
just being in that loving supportive
space with them helps turn it on or what
but for a lot of these cases that the
students often like their first words
will be tuned into my heart like that's
the first thing Asher said to J was like
tune into my heart and and I love that
it's it's not saying think about my
heart saying tune you know like think of
that frequency that tune into my heart
yeah and so you know I I don't have like
a a um like a rule book like you know
manual and how to do that but I just
think if you sit there and think about
someone you love Yeah and concentrate on
what you're grateful for and there that
person yeah and how your life has
changed because of that person and what
they represent you can feel someone even
if they're not speaking to you right
it's I think it's good there's no real
book I think it's good that you have to
audit what's going inside of you and
it's this kind of messy thing that
really involves your personal growth and
evolution as a as a person yeah and yeah
it's funny in that like UFO World a lot
of people are like you know what do you
know or whatever you know it's it's not
like uh it's it's like an I think it's
an awareness and like I think these kids
are on a whole other level with they
awareness it's not like a file you can
give somebody you know it's not this
semantic body of information and and
that comes through auditing the self and
through personal growth and that's you
know uh something you can't short
circuit no I'm smiling because I just
thought about something that too you
know in terms of this tuning into
something you also have to give yourself
space to validate that like maybe an
idea or a thought or an image isn't
coming from your own mind yes and and
that had never occurred to me until
three nights ago like think about this
I've been working on this for almost
four years like three nights ago I woke
up with this extreme vision of something
that had to be in the
film and it had to be with it had to do
with like finding a real metaphorical
Hill and bringing as many non-speakers
there together and making it beautiful
like a really like spiritual place and
Houston was like very prominent in this
dream and so I woke W up in the morning
and I said I wrote Katie and I said does
H is does Houston send me images at
night about the movie can you ask him if
he just did that and she wrote back and
she asked Houston and Houston said yes I
do s Kai Images Oh and and here I was
thinking I'm having this idea about the
film maybe it wasn't my idea maybe it
was Houston's idea I think it probably
was and he was trying to convey
something to me oh wow and I didn't for
so long I've just been taking it as oh
okay here's this idea I had in the
middle of the night when you know you're
the most like open to this stuff yes and
that gun was like shifted my Paradigm
entirely cuz I thought oh my goodness
has this been happening all along and
how how many parents is that happening
to while non-speakers are wonderful
individuals with beautiful personalities
and these incredible capab capabilities
but they do require help and care and
Sacrifice from those around them and
it's often a 24 is a 24-hour 7 sacrifice
an act of love and so um so I think if
there's anything that that comes out of
this I really hope people start to just
help the parents give them the resources
they need um and and that and that will
help the non-speakers very much as well
but also giving the non-speakers
resources and help and friendship like I
loved going to a bar in H with Houston
and Houston just had a beer you know
we're all sitting the table and Dr
Powell was there and Dr Jeff Taran like
this was one of the nights we were
filming and Houston just had his like
Budweiser and was like you know typing
along and I remember thinking at the
table I wish I was live I lived in
Atlanta and I could do this all the time
with Houston like I love watching
football or whatever and and yes I mean
just like all of us you want a loving
relationship you want friends I I hope
people aren't afraid to befriend
non-speakers it will take more care and
sacrifice and time but you can have a
very fruitful beautiful relationship yes
and so that's what I hope I hope their
lives become so much more expansive with
community and love and friendship I love
that I think uh that is going to happen
and uh H how how can we affect it steer
it in that
direction well I was thinking about this
a lot because one of the things Katie
talked about which broke my heart was
how for so many parents with
non-speakers who have a hard time
controlling their body and might be
stemming and making noises how hard it
was just to even go out in social
situations to go to a bar to be on an
airplane to go to a movie because she
the way she said it was you know we're
always worried about affecting like the
normal people and you know or their
children being afraid of my child and so
we have to go and how socially isolating
that can be Katie who's an Evangelical
Christian and you know her faith means
everything to her said it was hard to go
to church even at church they' be like
oh make him go quiet like you know can
you just go to this room instead and
like how awful right so I think the
first thing we can do is just have some
like Grace and compassion and welcome
non-speakers into our spaces and and I
said this in an interview recently and
I'm sure maybe it sounded trit and silly
but I actually meant it is like if you
own a bar if you have a restaurant like
have night where it's like non-speakers
welcome like you know like autism night
like come and hang out and allies too
friends too you know at at a skating
rink I mean I don't know whatever small
business you have whatever it is at at
the at the elementary school where my
kids go you know myself and a few other
um parents have made it really an effort
to at every event to have a safe room
for for people on the Spectrum or with
sensitivities where they can go and be
part of this event but not be bombarded
by what might feel feel uncomfortable so
we can all do something in our own world
to to make Society easier for
non-speakers and their families to go
out and participate in right there would
be huge I totally agree and I hope that
is a call to action that is heard widely
and I think it's it's in the best
interest of these these people to open
up as well because you have so much to
learn yeah and so uh yeah I hope I hope
uh you you know be on the Forefront of
this yeah and like I thought about this
the other night just one point is like
most of my non-speaking friends and
relationships are scattered around the
country and I was thinking the other day
I'm like oh I wish I knew at least you
know a few non-speakers in Burbank where
I live so I could go walk in Griffith
Park with them once a week give the
parent a break you know just come on and
swim in my pool I know I know you love
water you know like like come like let's
hang out and chill because even in my in
everyday life I don't H I have the
people I'm talking to all over the
country
every day but not the person right in my
midst that I just want to go hike with
and walk around the block with and hold
their hand and say we got you you know
and like yeah that break for the mom is
so huge or the dad yeah and and also so
good for um the spellers to get out with
other people and so good for all of us
yeah I mean I
I um it's a beautiful community of
individuals that I hope more people get
to know and love and appreciate I I hope
too I think they have so much to to
teach us have you ever read the book
childhood's End by any chance by Arthur
C Clark no it's very interesting
because kids start to develop telepathic
Clairvoyant Powers it's talks about this
sort of like non-human intelligence that
is uh kind of this mental sheath all
over the world who knows if that part is
you know true but uh the bridge to this
sort of you know other world are these
kids that start to develop this
Clairvoyant power and they're kind of
the ambassadors for Humanity oh wow and
I just yeah so I just I find that so and
Arthur C Clarks is a very interesting
character to me where he's like there's
something about that guy and Stanley
kubri and some of these other guys where
it's like you're tapped into some sort
of like you're imagining some pre-
reality that is going to kind of
manifest yeah so well I think one thing
I've learned is from what a lot of the
non-speakers will say is that what we
create on Earth really matters to yeah
and those creative ideas are coming to
us often from somewhere else and so I
started once I started getting into this
world reading fiction in a whole new way
and often being like whoa like where
this is coming from is might be an
Insight or a key into our greater
reality and all this stuff is being
funneled through creators and writers
and I love that yes I I think that's the
case yeah and on the on the scientific
front uh Dr Diane Powell medical license
was revoked is that right can we how do
we make sure that her and people like
her are protected uh especially when
they like her have the best of
intentions and I think similar to you
empowering these kids so they can study
this stuff and uh you know teach it to
the rest of us and even bring it into
this our scientific
Paradigm um what happened to Dr po was
awful you know when she wrote her book
the ESP Enigma she had her medical
license revoked because she was talking
about ESP and and she had to go through
psychological testing to get to get her
license back so demeaning it's
ridiculous when they read the book they
realized it was extremely sound science
of course I mean she's a brilliant you
know scientist and researcher and and
then she was fine not only in the state
where she was practicing Oregon she was
fine in California where she wasn't even
practicing but she you know she I think
she had a medical license there and and
it traumatized her she'll say that it
traumatized her and of course like you
don't want to have income taken away
from you you don't want to have I mean I
can't imagine if I could if I made a
documentary and someone slap me with
fines right what yeah and it shouldn't
be happening to scientists either and Dr
um Rupert sheldrick certainly talks
about this like scientists should have a
freedom of inquiry just like journalists
just like creators should that by asking
a question or presenting a hypothesis
you shouldn't be fined and intimidated
and have your credentials revoked and
tainted and I don't know how to fix that
I just hope awareness will I hope even
just this podcast going out there kind
of lets people think for the themselves
when they see that a scientist has had
their name tainted that like huh is that
a materialist Paradigm which is this
belief that like everything has to be
measured and you know it's all like
concrete what we understand and see is
this a materialist Paradigm that's
that's keeping these scientis in check
did they really do anything wrong so we
all just need to start asking that
question yeah and you we also o have to
ask you know yeah to the materialists
out there if this is all quackery why
revoke your license why are you
threatened at all let her continue to do
her studies you know they're not going
anywhere because it's all fake or
whatever so uh it shows an insecurity
the fact that you have to censor you
know means there's maybe even a part of
you that thinks that this is real right
and it's funny so I was just with her I
didn't realized this she's such a
fascinating person she has this kind of
analogous life with John Mack like where
she was friends with John Mack who was
at Harvard similar situation where tra
traditionally kind of pedigreed guy head
of the Harvard Psychiatry Department you
know very serious background and towards
the end of his life starts to study all
of these people were earnestly coming to
him saying you know we've we've had all
these you know alien abduction
experiences yeah and he was persecuted
by by Harvard there was a trial there
and um so
he dies he gets hit by a car very
tragically in London and she goes to his
memorial and I guess all the people at
the memorial are like uh Dr Powell you
have to take on uh Dr John Max's Legacy
this is really important and I think he
ends up she ends up running his
Institute I think it's called gem or
something and uh then she buys this
house which serendipitously like kind of
comes into view for her uh in Oregon and
the house is birth date when it was
built was the same birthday as John Mack
or something and so it's this very
interesting kind of synchronicity gosh
I'm so like just in all right now that
you're bringing this up because on the
car right over here I was talking to my
producer Jen and she said she was
talking about the UFO um uh just like
the world how often it's interviews and
it's a lot of the science and and
everyone's looking at the science and
experiencers and I mean not experienc
the disclosure and the technology and
XYZ and I said I didn't
really understand the whole world until
I read John Max's book and I understood
what all these experiences were talking
about and it made my heart and my body
like ache and hurt and swell and
confused and I bought in I then I was
like awaken to it because I understood
what people were experiencing you know
and and anyway we were talking about
that in a way here that like the gifts
of like John Mack bringing these
experiences not just you don't have to I
mean I can't I can't speak for everyone
for my point of view you don't have to
prove everything with instruments and
data yes and look at these hundreds of
people having the same experience all
over the world that's what John Mack did
yes for euphology I think oh he totally
did and he's I think a part of this
paradigm shift because there's amazing
conversation he had with Terence McKenna
who's also one of these Paradigm
shifters he's sort of a call him a
fungal philosopher you know really
interested in mushrooms and you know new
paradigms and Consciousness and just an
amazing guy and and he and John Mack are
speaking and John Mack you know McKenna
is actually playing the role of this
kind of like funny provocator where he's
asking these questions to Mac but he
kind of they're kind of leading
questions that he knows the answer to
and you can see it on his face and he's
like you know what's going to happen to
the Western Paradigm or something and
John Max says oh it's gonna it's G to
burst open and we're all going to
realize that the Western Paradigm is
incredibly myopic and closed if you want
to shatter the Western mental structures
the the Western mind so to speak which
is now permeating the whole earth in its
materialist
dualistic philosophy the way you do it
is you take something that's supposed to
be in the spirit world because even in
the west we can make allowance for the
spirit world and we can study it through
mythology through religion through
imagination through poetry but the one
unforgivable sin to the Western mind is
when something that should be in the
spirit world world transgresses and
shows up in the physical world and I
think what he's getting at is this idea
that the Observer observed dichotomy is
going to break down this idea that
there's an impartiality this distance
between me as this like perfect
instrument of observation and what I'm
seeing is going to collapse and these
kids are the just the perfect example of
that where they can sense people's
energies in this sort of just extremely
precocious way and what you're feeling
matters and uh that that really I mean
the name of the my show is American
Alchemy as well and that the alchemical
process is is changing the outer world
through through the inner and uh I I
wonder if we're at the end of this you
know John Mack was friends with Thomas
who um uh you know wrote the
structure of scientific revolutions and
he was like you got to look into this
because Thomas Kon knew that um you know
uh at end of a paradigm shift or sorry
at the end of a paradigm a current
Paradigm you have a law of marginal
returns declining marginal returns where
you're you're just you know kind of
dotting the eye and crossing the te on
like your final Theory and then it all
just kind of blows up and you see it
happening right now with string theory
and physics where you have people like
Leonard suskin the top of the field who
are getting interviewed and they're like
we haven't really discovered much like I
give I give our you know B+ or whatever
and then you have all this stuff that's
coming out and it's like kind of
undeniable and Academia I think is going
to be laid bare as kind of playing
catchup on this stuff because they have
to play these reputational Optics games
I see it with high-profile friends of
mine who are like in Academia they have
like more of a reputation I'm like this
rag tag former VC or whatever I'm like
this is real like so obvious and they're
like okay like send me the paper and
I'll read it and they're like like if
the New York Times reports on it then
I'll take it seriously like just look at
the data what's you know for yourself
think for yourself for sure and that's
what I would say to anyone listening
who's just like I don't know what to
believe I don't want to make of this
approach everything with open-minded
skepticism because if you're just a
close-minded skeptic you're dogmatic
you're just like a fundamental religious
person who won't listen to anything else
or you're you might be exactly what you
are against in a lot of ways and being
an open-hearted skeptic doesn't mean you
don't an ask questions it doesn't mean
you don't explore the truth but you need
to be open that the truth might be very
different than what you think it is and
I think that's what I encourage people
to do be open-minded Skeptics and your
world will be blown I love it how can we
help you and how can we help these kids
um you know I'm in the process of of
raising money for the film and I'm
having some wonderful conversations and
I'm hoping we'll have funding together
you know um by next year I mean that's
my goal um and so you know I will keep
people up to date on that I would
honestly say the best thing people can
do right now is just share the telepathy
tapes with their friends and family and
teachers and and just to help with this
paradigm shift all I want is for people
to hear this message and and as far as
the non-speakers go advocate for
spelling write to Asha talk to your
school district write a letter it you
know um AB therapy is not the solution I
think every parent will say that I mean
spelling has been a miracle worker we
have to get Spelling into schools ASAP
and universities well this has been an
absolute honor Dr Powell and um I hope
hope that everybody understands how uh
you know Earnest and rigorous you are in
your work and I think it's an absolute
atrocity that your your medical license
was revoked at one point right just for
looking into this stuff yeah and so um
yeah thank you for for giving us your
your time and uh excited to make
something cool out of this yeah thank
you very much it's been a pleasure go
listen to the telepathy tapes and let's
destigmatize spelling immediately and
allow these kids to get H and let's get
you some no strings attached money for
whatever you want to do creatively
around this in the future and uh thank
you Kai this was amazing thank you so
much for having me a great
combo thank you so much to my Heritage
for sponsoring this video please check
out their 14-day free trial via the link
in the description or the QR code